Now you've seen me use a few editors in this course.
Visual Studio Code, as well as Vim.
Those are my sort of favorite editors.
There's lots of editors out there, right.
VS code tends to be an increasingly popular one
because it's free.
It's regularly updated, and it has tons of features,
especially for Node and JavaScript.
If you've not checked it out, definitely go check out
Visual Studio Code on Microsoft's website.
It runs on every platform. It actually runs the same
backend as ADAM, if you've ever used ADAM from GitHub.
It's really got more developer features
in mind. I'm not going to go too deep into all the features
of it, but I did want to highlight a couple of things, as
well as debugging and other things like TypeScript, that
might get in your way and complicate your setup if you
don't have some good guidance. I can tell you that I've
spent many hours trying to get all these tools to
work together. When you start talking about Docker, plus
Docker Compose, plus Visual Studio Code,
plus node debugging, plus TypeScript, plus
nodemon, you start to get this stack of tools that gets
a little crazy. So, I'm going to give you a quick little
sample of how a setup works that
I've used in this course. So, it would work well with the
setup and design of the way we're doing things in this
course. It's not going to solve every problem or work in
every scenario.
But, you might want to check it out, and the source files
will be in the repo.
In case you've not yet debugged code with
Node.js inside of Docker, the way you're going to do that
is like you would normally do with Node, because Node is
designed for TCP remote debugging out-of-the-box.
It's pretty cool. That just works well with Docker.
That means you can turn on the inspect, whether you're
doing that with Node or nodemon.
You can still just enable that and default port is 9229
in the later versions of Node that we've had the last few
years. That largely works out-of-the-box.
You can expect that to work with Visual Studio Code, Chrome
debugging, if you've ever used that.
Or, any of the other major editors and debuggers.
That stuff just kind of works.
Once you start getting into wanting to use something like
TypeScript, or other automated scripts
that run with nodemon every time you change a file, then
you would also like it to work with Docker Compose inside
of something like Visual Studio Code, that can be a little
tricky. There's, like a lot of things,
various ways you can do this.
You can have your Visual Studio Code, or
your other editor, set up the tasking it
needs to do, like TypeScript, maybe gulp, or
some other automation on your files.
You can have that set up in the tool of choice.
The GUI that is. Then you can decide
not to complex your setup in Docker.
Your nodemon can stay simple and can just run Node.
In this example I'll show in a minute, I'm choosing to
do all of that in Docker Compose with nodemon, mostly
because I want to be able to change editors and not lose
functionality. If I tie stuff specifically to
Visual Studio Code, that does make it really awesome
in Visual Studio Code, and it actually has some pretty cool
features around tasks, and running debug, and stuff like
that. But, I'm not always using Visual Studio Code.
I like to do it a little bit in Vim, and I
want that same functionality so that when I change a file,
for example TypeScript in Vim, I want nodemon
to see that, and then recompile and make the changes
itself. I'll give you plenty of resources on
this lecture so that you can go check out other materials
on how these things are set up. Because there's definitely
a lot of different ways and different combinations, and
we're all different in the way we like to develop and set
up our environments. So, check those out.
If you don't necessarily work the exact, same way that I'm
going to give you in this example.
If you check out, in the repo for this course, the
TypeScript directory, it's a sample default
Express app that isn't really there to do anything other
than just to give us a hello world, because that isn't the
focus here, right. We just need a running Node app to do
all the bells and whistles on.
Let's look at some of the files I have inside of
VS Code. You'll notice some normal files in here that you
would see in every project. I've got my package JSON.
I've got my nodemon, Dockerfile, Docker Compose.
That's all filled out. Dockerignore, gitignore.
That stuff's all in there.
I just have one sample file that is there as
the sample app for Express.
It's sitting in a source directory as TypeScript.
A couple of things to note.
The Dockerfile is set up in a multistage build
so that I get a production one, or sort of a base image at
the top. Then that flows into
other things, specifically a dev build.
Then it runs tsc for production build
only, because in development, I'm not going to run this
stuff by rebuilding, right.
You never want to have to rebuild an image just to get your
code to work in development.
You really want that stuff running real time in your
editor, and in our case, with nodemon.
This stuff down at the bottom is really just for
production. You'll see in the later sections of this course
where I talk more about getting your images designed for
production and getting all that set up properly.
So, that's not necessarily the point here, but I did want
to have that file here so that it will work as expected.
Because when I'm in the Docker Compose, I choose
a target and that gives me a target stage
for just local development, right.
Then the other stages I'm not using because they're really
just for production. This allows me to have that single
Dockerfile like we've seen in the past, in the beginning of
this course, when we talked about multistage builds.
I've got the debug port open, the default one of 9229.
Of course, you can always make this whatever you want on
your system.
I'm mounting my code as usual.
This is using the scenario one,
simple setup from the previous lecture that we talked about
different ways to bind mount.
In my package JSON, I had the dev dependencies like you'd
expect. In there are specific stuff for TypeScript
and for TypeScript to be able to work in Visual Studio Code
well. Especially the types here, at the top, that allows
VS Code to understand what's going on, and the functions
and stuff in my code.
Then, TypeScript down at the bottom so that I can have
that tsc command line tool to
compile the code in the JavaScript.
Then I've got ts node dev, which we'll see
in a minute, helps me run my code in a one liner.
If you're into TypeScript, and of course you can do all
this debug and setup stuff without TypeScript, it's just
I'm adding it on here to show how all these things work
together. I have at the top a simple include statement in
a ts config file. The rest of it is pretty much default
out-of-the-box.
Other than the fact that I include the source directory
where all of my TypeScript is going to be.
Then I set source map to true.
That's going to help with the debugging and
Visual Studio Code. You can see that information in the
resources for this lecture, and it tells you how to set all
this stuff up. A lot of the guides on the Internet will
give you that information.
Then the output directory.
That's where the JavaScript is going to be after TypeScript
is done. I'm using that standard dist as many
different repos will show you.
And away we go.
The next step up is to look at our
nodemon.
Instead of me just running nodemon with a bunch of options
on it at the command line, when I get a little more
complicated setup with nodemon, I like to have it in the
nodemon JSON. I've mentioned that before in other lectures.
In here, I'm having it watch the source
directory, ignoring files in case they're
there that are spec files. I'm not using them in this
project. The important line here is the exec line
where I'm running Node.
I'm enabling the debugger.
That's the inspect part. Make sure that when you're
enabling your debuggers, you're always putting in the four
zeros for the IP address because by default,
Node's inspector, like many other debuggers, will
not run by default on all interfaces.
They'll only run on localhost.
As you recall, inside your container, you
can't do that, right. Because localhost, in a container, is
just a container. Then the debugger won't work.
You won't be able to connect to it from your host machine.
At the end here, I'm doing a -r ts node register.
That gets me the feature set of ts node, which essentially.
automatically compiles my TypeScript
into JavaScript, and I tell it what the JavaScript
file that runs my app is, right.
So, that one little liner, you can actually find
some of that information on the nodemon page, as well as in
TypeScript examples on Microsoft's site, and other places
as well. Once you've got all that set up,
you're ready to enable debugging on your app.
If I just open up this simple little thing.
Of course in my case, I can go back to the command line and
do a docker compose up.
You can also have Visual Studio Code
set up all your Docker and Docker Compose stuff.
You can actually have it run different commands.
You can give it tasks.
That's a little bit beyond what I want to go through in
this course because that's really very specific to
Visual Studio Code. As you learn that tool, if you really
want to get heavy into sticking with that one tool and even
having your terminal window in that tool, that's fine.
It'll all work the way that you would expect with these
tools. I'm just going to run it here like usual, docker
compose up. You'll
see here that it's showing nodemon starting.
It starts Node.
It's got that extra little register on the end, and
it enables the debugger.
So, you see the debugger.
Then of course, my app is doing a console log telling you
that it's running on port 3000.
If we jumped in our browser, we would see it running on
port 3000 because that's the mapping I've done in Docker
Compose. If I jump back over to my editor and go
to debugging, I have set up a debugging
option here. This is mine that I've put in.
This will be a part of the repo.
If you don't have one yet, you can click on the little
widget. It will allow you to add configurations.
When you start out, it'll give you this, all by default,
except for two of these lines. I've added some comments in
for you. It'll ask you for the remote root.
That means the root inside of the container.
Whenever you add a configuration, at least right now in
2019 with Visual Studio Code, you can use
this Docker Attach to Node.
That's what I started with, right.
Because you're going to use Docker, and you're going to
attach to it rather than launch it.
The launch configurations mean Visual Studio Code will run
things for you. If you wanted to have Visual Studio Code
run Docker Compose for you, you can do that as well.
There's actually information on the
Visual Studio Code website that will show you how to do
that for the debugger.
I don't want to do that. I just want to run Docker Compose
myself. I'd rather have it in its own window, and
have them, you know, on my screen. But, you can totally do
whatever you want. All that stuff works in here.
You would add just extra options here.
The IntelliSense is really good for helping you figure out
these options. I add in restart true here because
when nodemon restarts Node every time I save a file,
I want the debugger to reconnect automatically.
Then lastly here, I have to set the outfiles.
If you don't set the outfiles, because I'm using TypeScript
here, I need to have my outfiles specified so it knows
where the JavaScript is going once it's compiled by
TypeScript. You've got to get to get that right.
That took me a little while to figure out that you just
need to point it to that folder.
Once you've done that, you can then go back over to your
debugger and hit play.
It will connect to the remote debugging port.
You'll know
that's good when there's an orange bar at the bottom.
You get your nice little debug window.
Then I can go and do things like set breakpoints.
When I go to the browser and refresh, it will properly
identify that breakpoint and stop me there.
Once you know that that is all working correctly, you'll
know that it will work, because this red dot will actually
stop the code whenever you get to that.
In this case, I'm stopping the root URL.
So, if I were to go there in my browser, it would stop
that and it would see it pop up here, and
it would identify correctly in this file.
If you don't have your TypeScript stuff set up right, and
paths right, you'll actually have it pop up a different
window that says a read-only version of the app.ts.That
usually means that you just don't have your paths quite
right for your source and distribution in the various
places. It can't quite figure out where the files
are and where they're going.
That can be a little tricky to do when you're dealing with
Docker with Visual Studio Code on top of it.